README.md, before:

# Customer.io [![test](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-node/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-node/actions/workflows/main.yml)

A node client for the Customer.io [REST API](https://learn.customer.io/api/).

## Installation

```
npm i --save customerio-node
```

## Usage

### Creating a new instance

To start using the library, you first need to create an instance of the CIO class:

```javascript
const { TrackClient, RegionUS, RegionEU } = require("customerio-node");
let cio = new TrackClient(siteId, apiKey, { region: RegionUS });
```

Both the `siteId` and `apiKey` are **required** to create a Basic Authorization header, allowing us to associate the data with your account.

Your account `region` is optional. If you do not specify your region, the default will be the US region (`RegionUS`). If your account is in the EU and you do not provide the correct region, we'll route requests from the US to `RegionEU` accordingly. This may cause data to be logged in the US.

Optionally you can specify `defaults` that will forwarded to the underlying request instance. The [node `http` docs](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_http_request_options_callback) has a list of the possible options.

This is useful to override the default 10s timeout. Example:

```
const cio = new TrackClient('123', 'abc', {
  timeout: 5000
});
```

---

### cio.identify(id, data)

Creating a person is as simple as identifying them with this call. You can also use this method to update a persons data.

```
cio.identify(1, {
  email: 'customer@example.com',
  created_at: 1361205308,
  first_name: 'Bob',
  plan: 'basic'
});
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (optional)
  - _email_ is a required key if you intend to send email messages
  - _created_at_ is a required key if you want to segment based on signed up/created date

#### Updating identifiers

If you want to update an identifier for an existing profile, you must reference them using their `cio_id` in the format `cio_<cio_id_value>`. Using anything else will result in an attribute update failure in Customer.io. You can read more about [updating customers](https://customer.io/docs/api/#operation/identify) on our API documentation.

```
cio.identify(`cio_${customer.cio_id}`, {
  email: 'new_email@example.com'
});
```

---

### cio.destroy(id)

This will delete a person from Customer.io.

```
cio.destroy(1);
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)

---

### cio.track(id, data)

The track method will trigger events within Customer.io. Customer.io requires a name key/value pair in you data object when sending data along with your event.

**Simple event tracking**

```javascript
cio.track(1, { name: "updated" });
```

**Sending data with an event**

```javascript
cio.track(1, {
  name: "purchase",
  data: {
    price: "23.45",
    product: "socks",
  },
});
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (required)
  - _name_ is a required key on the Object
  - _data_ is an optional key for additional data sent over with the event

---

### cio.trackAnonymous(anonymous_id, data)

Track an anonymous event. An anonymous event is an event associated with a person you haven't identified, requiring an `anonymous_id` representing the unknown person and an event `name`. When you identify a person, you can set their `anonymous_id` attribute. If [event merging](https://customer.io/docs/anonymous-events/#turn-on-merging) is turned on in your workspace, and the attribute matches the `anonymous_id` in one or more events that were logged within the last 30 days, we associate those events with the person.

Anonymous events cannot trigger campaigns. If you associate an event with a person within 72 hours of the event timestamp, however, a formerly anonymous event can trigger a campaign.

```javascript
cio.trackAnonymous(anonymous_id, {
  name: "updated",
  data: {
    updated: true,
    plan: "free",
  },
});
```

#### Options

- **anonymous_id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (required)
  - _name_ is a required key on the Object
  - _data_ is an optional key for additional data sent over with the event

---

### cio.trackPageView(id, url)

Sending a page event includes sending over the customers id and the name of the page.

```javascript
cio.trackPageView(1, "/home");
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **url**: String (required)

### cio.addDevice(id, device_id, platform, data)

Add a device to send push notifications.

```javascript
cio.addDevice(1, "device_id", "ios", { primary: true });
```

#### Options

- **customer_id**: String or number (required)
- **device_id**: String (required)
- **platform**: String (required)
- **data**: Object (optional)

### cio.deleteDevice(id, device_id)

Delete a device to remove it from the associated customer and stop sending push notifications to it.

```javascript
cio.deleteDevice(1, "device_token");
```

#### Options

- **customer_id**: String or number (required)
- **device_token**: String (required)

### cio.suppress(id)

Suppress a customer.

```javascript
cio.suppress(1);
```

#### Options

- **customer_id**: String or number (required)

### Using Promises

All calls to the library will return a native promise, allowing you to chain calls as such:

```javascript
const customerId = 1;

cio.identify(customerId, { first_name: "Finn" }).then(() => {
  return cio.track(customerId, {
    name: "updated",
    data: {
      updated: true,
      plan: "free",
    },
  });
});
```

or use `async/await`:

```javascript
const customerId = 1;

await cio.identify(customerId, { first_name: "Finn" });

return cio.track(customerId, {
  name: "updated",
  data: {
    updated: true,
    plan: "free",
  },
});
```

### Transactional API

To use the Customer.io [Transactional API](https://customer.io/docs/transactional-api), import our API client and initialize it with an [app key](https://customer.io/docs/managing-credentials#app-api-keys).

Create a new `SendEmailRequest` object containing:

- `transactional_message_id`: the ID of the transactional message you want to send, or the `body`, `from`, and `subject` of a new message.
- `to`: the email address of your recipients
- an `identifiers` object containing the `id` of your recipient. If the `id` does not exist, Customer.io will create it.
- a `message_data` object containing properties that you want reference in your message using Liquid.
- You can also send attachments with your message. Use `attach` to encode attachments.

Use `sendEmail` referencing your request to send a transactional message. [Learn more about transactional messages and `SendEmailRequest` properties](https://customer.io/docs/transactional-api).

```javascript
const fs = require("fs");
const { APIClient, SendEmailRequest, RegionUS, RegionEU } = require("customerio-node");
const api = new APIClient("app-key", { region: RegionUS });

const request = new SendEmailRequest({
  to: "person@example.com",
  transactional_message_id: "3",
  message_data: {
    name: "Person",
    items: {
      name: "shoes",
      price: "59.99",
    },
    products: [],
  },
  identifiers: {
    id: "2",
  },
});

// (optional) attach a file to your message.
request.attach("receipt.pdf", fs.readFileSync("receipt.pdf"));

api
  .sendEmail(request)
  .then((res) => console.log(res))
  .catch((err) => console.log(err.statusCode, err.message));
```

### api.triggerBroadcast(campaign_id, data, recipients)

Trigger an email broadcast using the email campaign's id. You can also optionally pass along custom data that will be merged with the liquid template, and additional conditions to filter recipients.

```javascript
api.triggerBroadcast(1, { name: "foo" }, { segment: { id: 7 } });
```

You can also use emails or ids to select recipients, and pass optional API parameters such as `email_ignore_missing`.

```javascript
api.triggerBroadcast(1, { name: "foo" }, { emails: ["example@emails.com"], email_ignore_missing: true });
```

[You can learn more about the available recipient fields here](https://customer.io/docs/api/#operation/triggerBroadcast).

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (optional)
- **recipients**: Object (optional)

## Further examples

We've included functional examples in the [examples/ directory](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-node/tree/master/examples) of the repo to further assist in demonstrating how to use this library to integrate with Customer.io

## Tests

```bash
npm install && npm test
```

## License

Released under the MIT license. See file [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.

Commit message:

docs: Update reaadme for React Native and update the Changelog

README.md, after:

# Customer.io [![test](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-node/actions/workflows/main.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-node/actions/workflows/main.yml)

A node client for the Customer.io [REST API](https://learn.customer.io/api/).

## React Native and alternative Node runtimes

This project is developed for and tested against the latest and LTS versions of Node.js. Many runtimes, such as React Native, often have subtle differences to the APIs and standard library offered by Node.js. These differences can cause issues when using this library with those runtimes.

If you would like to use Customer.io with React Native or an alternate runtime, we recommend using our [Track](https://customer.io/docs/api/#tag/trackOverview) and [App](https://customer.io/docs/api/#tag/appOverview) APIs directly using the built-in HTTP client available in your runtime.

## Installation

```
npm i --save customerio-node
```

## Usage

### Creating a new instance

To start using the library, you first need to create an instance of the CIO class:

```javascript
const { TrackClient, RegionUS, RegionEU } = require("customerio-node");
let cio = new TrackClient(siteId, apiKey, { region: RegionUS });
```

Both the `siteId` and `apiKey` are **required** to create a Basic Authorization header, allowing us to associate the data with your account.

Your account `region` is optional. If you do not specify your region, the default will be the US region (`RegionUS`). If your account is in the EU and you do not provide the correct region, we'll route requests from the US to `RegionEU` accordingly. This may cause data to be logged in the US.

Optionally you can specify `defaults` that will forwarded to the underlying request instance. The [node `http` docs](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#http_http_request_options_callback) has a list of the possible options.

This is useful to override the default 10s timeout. Example:

```
const cio = new TrackClient('123', 'abc', {
  timeout: 5000
});
```

---

### cio.identify(id, data)

Creating a person is as simple as identifying them with this call. You can also use this method to update a persons data.

```
cio.identify(1, {
  email: 'customer@example.com',
  created_at: 1361205308,
  first_name: 'Bob',
  plan: 'basic'
});
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (optional)
  - _email_ is a required key if you intend to send email messages
  - _created_at_ is a required key if you want to segment based on signed up/created date

#### Updating identifiers

If you want to update an identifier for an existing profile, you must reference them using their `cio_id` in the format `cio_<cio_id_value>`. Using anything else will result in an attribute update failure in Customer.io. You can read more about [updating customers](https://customer.io/docs/api/#operation/identify) on our API documentation.

```
cio.identify(`cio_${customer.cio_id}`, {
  email: 'new_email@example.com'
});
```

---

### cio.destroy(id)

This will delete a person from Customer.io.

```
cio.destroy(1);
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)

---

### cio.track(id, data)

The track method will trigger events within Customer.io. Customer.io requires a name key/value pair in you data object when sending data along with your event.

**Simple event tracking**

```javascript
cio.track(1, { name: "updated" });
```

**Sending data with an event**

```javascript
cio.track(1, {
  name: "purchase",
  data: {
    price: "23.45",
    product: "socks",
  },
});
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (required)
  - _name_ is a required key on the Object
  - _data_ is an optional key for additional data sent over with the event

---

### cio.trackAnonymous(anonymous_id, data)

Track an anonymous event. An anonymous event is an event associated with a person you haven't identified, requiring an `anonymous_id` representing the unknown person and an event `name`. When you identify a person, you can set their `anonymous_id` attribute. If [event merging](https://customer.io/docs/anonymous-events/#turn-on-merging) is turned on in your workspace, and the attribute matches the `anonymous_id` in one or more events that were logged within the last 30 days, we associate those events with the person.

Anonymous events cannot trigger campaigns. If you associate an event with a person within 72 hours of the event timestamp, however, a formerly anonymous event can trigger a campaign.

```javascript
cio.trackAnonymous(anonymous_id, {
  name: "updated",
  data: {
    updated: true,
    plan: "free",
  },
});
```

#### Options

- **anonymous_id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (required)
  - _name_ is a required key on the Object
  - _data_ is an optional key for additional data sent over with the event

---

### cio.trackPageView(id, url)

Sending a page event includes sending over the customers id and the name of the page.

```javascript
cio.trackPageView(1, "/home");
```

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **url**: String (required)

### cio.addDevice(id, device_id, platform, data)

Add a device to send push notifications.

```javascript
cio.addDevice(1, "device_id", "ios", { primary: true });
```

#### Options

- **customer_id**: String or number (required)
- **device_id**: String (required)
- **platform**: String (required)
- **data**: Object (optional)

### cio.deleteDevice(id, device_id)

Delete a device to remove it from the associated customer and stop sending push notifications to it.

```javascript
cio.deleteDevice(1, "device_token");
```

#### Options

- **customer_id**: String or number (required)
- **device_token**: String (required)

### cio.suppress(id)

Suppress a customer.

```javascript
cio.suppress(1);
```

#### Options

- **customer_id**: String or number (required)

### Using Promises

All calls to the library will return a native promise, allowing you to chain calls as such:

```javascript
const customerId = 1;

cio.identify(customerId, { first_name: "Finn" }).then(() => {
  return cio.track(customerId, {
    name: "updated",
    data: {
      updated: true,
      plan: "free",
    },
  });
});
```

or use `async/await`:

```javascript
const customerId = 1;

await cio.identify(customerId, { first_name: "Finn" });

return cio.track(customerId, {
  name: "updated",
  data: {
    updated: true,
    plan: "free",
  },
});
```

### Transactional API

To use the Customer.io [Transactional API](https://customer.io/docs/transactional-api), import our API client and initialize it with an [app key](https://customer.io/docs/managing-credentials#app-api-keys).

Create a new `SendEmailRequest` object containing:

- `transactional_message_id`: the ID of the transactional message you want to send, or the `body`, `from`, and `subject` of a new message.
- `to`: the email address of your recipients
- an `identifiers` object containing the `id` of your recipient. If the `id` does not exist, Customer.io will create it.
- a `message_data` object containing properties that you want reference in your message using Liquid.
- You can also send attachments with your message. Use `attach` to encode attachments.

Use `sendEmail` referencing your request to send a transactional message. [Learn more about transactional messages and `SendEmailRequest` properties](https://customer.io/docs/transactional-api).

```javascript
const fs = require("fs");
const { APIClient, SendEmailRequest, RegionUS, RegionEU } = require("customerio-node");
const api = new APIClient("app-key", { region: RegionUS });

const request = new SendEmailRequest({
  to: "person@example.com",
  transactional_message_id: "3",
  message_data: {
    name: "Person",
    items: {
      name: "shoes",
      price: "59.99",
    },
    products: [],
  },
  identifiers: {
    id: "2",
  },
});

// (optional) attach a file to your message.
request.attach("receipt.pdf", fs.readFileSync("receipt.pdf"));

api
  .sendEmail(request)
  .then((res) => console.log(res))
  .catch((err) => console.log(err.statusCode, err.message));
```

### api.triggerBroadcast(campaign_id, data, recipients)

Trigger an email broadcast using the email campaign's id. You can also optionally pass along custom data that will be merged with the liquid template, and additional conditions to filter recipients.

```javascript
api.triggerBroadcast(1, { name: "foo" }, { segment: { id: 7 } });
```

You can also use emails or ids to select recipients, and pass optional API parameters such as `email_ignore_missing`.

```javascript
api.triggerBroadcast(1, { name: "foo" }, { emails: ["example@emails.com"], email_ignore_missing: true });
```

[You can learn more about the available recipient fields here](https://customer.io/docs/api/#operation/triggerBroadcast).

#### Options

- **id**: String or number (required)
- **data**: Object (optional)
- **recipients**: Object (optional)

## Further examples

We've included functional examples in the [examples/ directory](https://github.com/customerio/customerio-node/tree/master/examples) of the repo to further assist in demonstrating how to use this library to integrate with Customer.io

## Tests

```bash
npm install && npm test
```

## License

Released under the MIT license. See file [LICENSE](LICENSE) for more details.
